= wav-file

* http://github.com/shokai/ruby-wav-file

== DESCRIPTION:

Read wav file format and Edit data chunk

== INSTALL:

* gem install wav-file

== TIPS:

To run samples, you need wav file.
"ffmpeg" is good tool for making wav file from mp3.

    % ffmpeg -i input.mp3 output.wav

Wav-file gem cannot convert format of wav file.
Before edit data-chunk of wav files, you should adjust them using ffmpeg.


== SYNOPSIS:
   

Read format and chunks

    require 'rubygems'
    require 'wav-file'
    
    f = open("input.wav")
    format = WavFile::readFormat(f)
    dataChunk = WavFile::readDataChunk(f)
    f.close
    
    puts format


Extract wav from binary    

    bit = 's*' if format.bitPerSample == 16 # int16_t
    bit = 'c*' if format.bitPerSample == 8 # signed char
    wavs = dataChunk.data.unpack(bit) # read binary


Change volume half

    wavs = wavs.map{|w| w/2}


Reverse wav and encode to binary

    dataChunk.data = wavs.reverse.pack(bit) # reverse
    
    
Save to file

    open("output.wav", "w"){|out|
      WavFile::write(out, format, [dataChunk])
    }

See "samples" directory.

== LICENSE:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2010 Sho Hashimoto

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.